sphinx/publications.rst, before:


.. _chap_publications:

************
Publications
************

This is a list of publication from the NeuroDebian team on various
NeuroDebian-related topics:

Hanke, M. (2012). `Share your tools! But fear the wombat! Seriously.
<http://neuro.debian.net/_files/Hanke_FearTheWombat_Brainhack2012.pdf>`_  *Talk
given at* `Brainhack <http://brainhack.org/2012/04/06/brainhack-2012-unconference>`_ 2012 at the
Max-Planck-Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences*, Leipzig, Germany.
[`video <http://youtu.be/8t6znEOEDVo>`_]

Hanke, M. (2012). `Computational and cognitive neuroscience boosted by Debian
OR Just using Debian is not enough
<http://neuro.debian.net/_files/Hanke_UsingDebianIsNotEnough_ESRF2012.pdf>`_.
Talk given at the workshop "Debian for Scientific Facilities Days" at the
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), Grenoble, France.

Halchenko, Y. O. & Hanke, M. (2012). `Open is not enough. Let’s take the
next step: An integrated, community-driven computing platform for neuroscience
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2012.00022/full>`_. *Frontiers in Neuroinformatics*,
6:22.

Hanke, M. (2012). `The why and how of getting packaged
<_files/Hanke_GetPackaged_CodeJam5_2012.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at BrainScaleS CodeJam 5, Convergence in Computational Neuroscience*,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

Halchenko, Y. O. & Hanke, M. (2012). `Environments for efficient
contemporary research in neuroimaging: PyMVPA and NeuroDebian
<_files/HalchenkoHanke_ContemporaryNeuroimaging_PENN2012.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine*,
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Hanke, M. (2012). `Rock solid, brand new, everyday, for free, not a joke:
NeuroDebian <_files/Hanke_NeuroDebian_MPI2012.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at the Max-Planck-Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain
Sciences*, Leipzig, Germany.

Hanke, M. (2011). `More than batteries included: NeuroDebian
<_files/Hanke_NeuroDebian_EuroSciPy2011.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at the Python in Neuroscience satellite of EuroScipy 2011*,
Paris, France.

Halchenko, Y. O. (2011). `π's in Debian or Scientific Debian: NumPy, SciPy and beyond
<_files/Halchenko_EuroScipy11_3_14s_in_Debian.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at* `EuroScipy 2011 <http://www.euroscipy.org/talk/4379>`_,
Paris, France.

Hanke, M. & Halchenko, Y. O. (2011). `Neuroscience runs on GNU/Linux
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2011.00008/full>`_.
*Frontiers in Neuroinformatics, 5:8*.

Hanke, M., Halchenko, Y. O. & Haxby, J. V. (2011). `NeuroDebian -- versatile
platform for brain-imaging research <_files/NeuroDebian_HBM2011.png>`_
*Poster presented at the annual meeting of the Organisation for Human Brain
Mapping*, Quebec City, Canada.

Hanke, M. (2011). `Integrating Condor into the Debian operating system
<_files/Hanke_CondorDebianIntegration_CondorWeek2011.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at* `CondorWeek 2011
<http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/CondorWeek2011/wednesday_condor.html>`_,
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

Hanke, M. & Halchenko, Y. O. (2010). :ref:`Report from the Debian booth at
SfN2010 <chap_debian_booth_sfn2010>`. *Annual meeting of the Society for
Neuroscience*, San Diego, USA.

Halchenko, Y. O., Hanke, M., Haxby, J. V., Pollmann, S. & Raizada, R. D.
(2010). `Having trouble getting your Nature paper? Maybe you are not using the
right tools? <_files/NeuroDebian_SfN2010.png>`_ *Poster presented at the
annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience*, San Diego, USA.

Hanke, M., Halchenko, Y. O. (2010). `Debian: The ultimate platform for
neuroimaging research <_files/HankeHalchenko_NeuroDebianDebConf10.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at* DebConf10_, New York City, USA. [video:
`low resolution <http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2010/debconf10/low/1310_1310_Debian_The_ultimate_platform_for_neuroimaging_research.ogv>`_,
`high resolution <http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2010/debconf10/high/1310_1310_Debian_The_ultimate_platform_for_neuroimaging_research.ogv>`_]

Hanke, M., Halchenko, Y. O., Haxby, J. V. & Pollmann, S. (2010). `Improving
efficiency in cognitive neuroscience research with NeuroDebian
<_files/NeuroDebian_CNS2010.pdf>`_. *Poster presented at the annual
meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Society*, Montréal, Canada.

Halchenko, Y. O., Hanke, M. (2009). `An ecosystem of neuroimaging,
statistical learning, and open-source software to make research more
efficient, more open, and more fun
<_files/HalchenkoHanke_FossEcosystemDC09.pdf>`_. *Talk given at*
`Dartmouth College`_, New Hampshire, USA.

.. _DebConf10: http://debconf10.debconf.org/
.. _Dartmouth College: http://www.dartmouth.edu/

Commit message:

(re-)added my talk at UCAR

sphinx/publications.rst, after:


.. _chap_publications:

************
Publications
************

This is a list of publication from the NeuroDebian team on various
NeuroDebian-related topics:

Halchenko, Y.O. and Hanke, M. (2013). `Open is not enough: benefits from Debian as an integrated, community-driven computing platform.
<http://neuro.debian.net/_files/Halchenko_OpenIsNotEnough_UCAR2013.pdf>`_  *Talk
given at* `SEA-2013 <http://sea.ucar.edu/event/open-not-enough-benefits-debian-integrated-community-driven-computing-platform>`_
conference, University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR), Boulder CO, USA.

Hanke, M. (2012). `Share your tools! But fear the wombat! Seriously.
<http://neuro.debian.net/_files/Hanke_FearTheWombat_Brainhack2012.pdf>`_  *Talk
given at* `Brainhack <http://brainhack.org/2012/04/06/brainhack-2012-unconference>`_ 2012 at the
Max-Planck-Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences*, Leipzig, Germany.
[`video <http://youtu.be/8t6znEOEDVo>`_]

Hanke, M. (2012). `Computational and cognitive neuroscience boosted by Debian
OR Just using Debian is not enough
<http://neuro.debian.net/_files/Hanke_UsingDebianIsNotEnough_ESRF2012.pdf>`_.
Talk given at the workshop "Debian for Scientific Facilities Days" at the
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), Grenoble, France.

Halchenko, Y. O. & Hanke, M. (2012). `Open is not enough. Let’s take the
next step: An integrated, community-driven computing platform for neuroscience
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2012.00022/full>`_. *Frontiers in Neuroinformatics*,
6:22.

Hanke, M. (2012). `The why and how of getting packaged
<_files/Hanke_GetPackaged_CodeJam5_2012.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at BrainScaleS CodeJam 5, Convergence in Computational Neuroscience*,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

Halchenko, Y. O. & Hanke, M. (2012). `Environments for efficient
contemporary research in neuroimaging: PyMVPA and NeuroDebian
<_files/HalchenkoHanke_ContemporaryNeuroimaging_PENN2012.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine*,
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Hanke, M. (2012). `Rock solid, brand new, everyday, for free, not a joke:
NeuroDebian <_files/Hanke_NeuroDebian_MPI2012.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at the Max-Planck-Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain
Sciences*, Leipzig, Germany.

Hanke, M. (2011). `More than batteries included: NeuroDebian
<_files/Hanke_NeuroDebian_EuroSciPy2011.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at the Python in Neuroscience satellite of EuroScipy 2011*,
Paris, France.

Halchenko, Y. O. (2011). `π's in Debian or Scientific Debian: NumPy, SciPy and beyond
<_files/Halchenko_EuroScipy11_3_14s_in_Debian.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at* `EuroScipy 2011 <http://www.euroscipy.org/talk/4379>`_,
Paris, France.

Hanke, M. & Halchenko, Y. O. (2011). `Neuroscience runs on GNU/Linux
<http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2011.00008/full>`_.
*Frontiers in Neuroinformatics, 5:8*.

Hanke, M., Halchenko, Y. O. & Haxby, J. V. (2011). `NeuroDebian -- versatile
platform for brain-imaging research <_files/NeuroDebian_HBM2011.png>`_
*Poster presented at the annual meeting of the Organisation for Human Brain
Mapping*, Quebec City, Canada.

Hanke, M. (2011). `Integrating Condor into the Debian operating system
<_files/Hanke_CondorDebianIntegration_CondorWeek2011.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at* `CondorWeek 2011
<http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/CondorWeek2011/wednesday_condor.html>`_,
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

Hanke, M. & Halchenko, Y. O. (2010). :ref:`Report from the Debian booth at
SfN2010 <chap_debian_booth_sfn2010>`. *Annual meeting of the Society for
Neuroscience*, San Diego, USA.

Halchenko, Y. O., Hanke, M., Haxby, J. V., Pollmann, S. & Raizada, R. D.
(2010). `Having trouble getting your Nature paper? Maybe you are not using the
right tools? <_files/NeuroDebian_SfN2010.png>`_ *Poster presented at the
annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience*, San Diego, USA.

Hanke, M., Halchenko, Y. O. (2010). `Debian: The ultimate platform for
neuroimaging research <_files/HankeHalchenko_NeuroDebianDebConf10.pdf>`_.
*Talk given at* DebConf10_, New York City, USA. [video:
`low resolution <http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2010/debconf10/low/1310_1310_Debian_The_ultimate_platform_for_neuroimaging_research.ogv>`_,
`high resolution <http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2010/debconf10/high/1310_1310_Debian_The_ultimate_platform_for_neuroimaging_research.ogv>`_]

Hanke, M., Halchenko, Y. O., Haxby, J. V. & Pollmann, S. (2010). `Improving
efficiency in cognitive neuroscience research with NeuroDebian
<_files/NeuroDebian_CNS2010.pdf>`_. *Poster presented at the annual
meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Society*, Montréal, Canada.

Halchenko, Y. O., Hanke, M. (2009). `An ecosystem of neuroimaging,
statistical learning, and open-source software to make research more
efficient, more open, and more fun
<_files/HalchenkoHanke_FossEcosystemDC09.pdf>`_. *Talk given at*
`Dartmouth College`_, New Hampshire, USA.

.. _DebConf10: http://debconf10.debconf.org/
.. _Dartmouth College: http://www.dartmouth.edu/
