sphinx/spread.rst, before:

.. _chap_spread:

Spread The Word
===============

Are you relying on a particular software packaged by |team| that is part
of the main Debian_ distribution?  Or do you rely on the
|repos|?  If you think that this project is useful, please help us to
make more people aware of Debian_ and NeuroDebian_ in particular.
Sharing your positive experience with your friends and/or colleagues
is one possibility. Alternatively you could...


Rate or review
--------------

NeuroDebian_ is `listed on the NITRC portal
<http://www.nitrc.org/projects/neurodebian/>`_.  We would greatly
appreciate if you rate it or express your opinion in a review (see
"Reviews & Ratings").

Connect with us
---------------

We are not on Facebook. But if you are a NeuroDebian user, contributor, or
simply a fan you are more than welcome to follow us on identi.ca_ or join
the `NeuroDebian group on LinkedIn`_.

.. _identi.ca: http://identi.ca/neurodebian
.. _NeuroDebian group on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=3694689

Reference from your website
---------------------------

If you or your research group has a web page, we would appreciate
a reference to NeuroDebian_. You could simply use a pre-generated
banner by using following HTML code for a corresponding image:

.. image:: _static/fmri_w200.png

::

 <a href="http://neuro.debian.net">
  <img src="http://neuro.debian.net/_static/fmri_w200.png" border="0" width="200px" alt="Enjoy in NeuroDebian">
 </a>


.. image:: _static/button_w200.png

::

 <a href="http://neuro.debian.net">
  <img src="http://neuro.debian.net/_static/button_w200.png" border="0" width="200px" alt="Enjoy in NeuroDebian">
 </a>



.. include:: link_names.txt
.. include:: substitutions.txt

Commit message:

Mention the paper in all possible places and shorten other bits.

sphinx/spread.rst, after:

.. _chap_spread:

Spread The Word
===============

Are you relying on a particular software packaged by |team| that is part
of the main Debian_ distribution?  Or do you rely on the
|repos|?  If you think that this project is useful, please help us to
make more people aware of Debian_ and NeuroDebian_ in particular.
Sharing your positive experience with your friends and/or colleagues
is one possibility. Alternatively you could...

Cite NeuroDebian in your publications
-------------------------------------

If you conduct your research using NeuroDebian services, for example, the
NeuroDebian repository, the NeuroDebian Virtual machine, or software that is
maintained by the NeuroDebian team on Debian, Ubuntu, or some other derivative,
please cite this paper:

  Halchenko, Y. O. & Hanke, M. (2012). `Open is not enough. Let’s take the
  next step: An integrated, community-driven computing platform for neuroscience
  <http://www.frontiersin.org/Neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2012.00022/full>`_.
  *Frontiers in Neuroinformatics*, 6:22.


Rate or review
--------------

NeuroDebian_ is `listed on the NITRC portal
<http://www.nitrc.org/projects/neurodebian/>`_.  We would greatly
appreciate if you rate it or express your opinion in a review (see
"Reviews & Ratings").

Connect with us
---------------

We are not on Facebook. But if you are a NeuroDebian user, contributor, or
simply a fan you are more than welcome to follow us on identi.ca_ or join the
`NeuroDebian group on LinkedIn`_, put NeuroDebian in your circles on `Google+`_.

.. _identi.ca: http://identi.ca/neurodebian
.. _NeuroDebian group on LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=3694689
.. _Google+: http://

Reference from your website
---------------------------

If you or your research group has a web page, we would appreciate
a reference to NeuroDebian_. You could simply use a pre-generated
banner by using following HTML code for a corresponding image:

.. image:: _static/fmri_w200.png

::

 <a href="http://neuro.debian.net">
  <img src="http://neuro.debian.net/_static/fmri_w200.png" border="0" width="200px" alt="Enjoy in NeuroDebian">
 </a>


.. image:: _static/button_w200.png

::

 <a href="http://neuro.debian.net">
  <img src="http://neuro.debian.net/_static/button_w200.png" border="0" width="200px" alt="Enjoy in NeuroDebian">
 </a>



.. include:: link_names.txt
.. include:: substitutions.txt
