sphinx/testimonials.rst, before:

.. _testimonials:

Testimonials
============

.. None so far replied
..
.. Organizations
.. -------------
..
.. .. quotes::
..    :group: Organizations


By Topic
--------

* :ref:`testimonials_open_science`
* :ref:`testimonials_standardization`
* :ref:`testimonials_vm`


Research Institutions
---------------------

.. quotes::
   :group: Research institutions

..   not implemented for now
..   :sections: group


Research Software Projects
--------------------------

.. quotes::
   :group: Research software projects

.. quote::
   :author: Stephan Gerhard, et al.
   :date: 2011-06-06
   :tags:  practices, quality
   :source: The Connectome Viewer Toolkit, Front. Neuroinform. 5:3. doi: 10.3389/fninf.2011.00003

   For proper software packaging and distribution, the NeuroDebian project provides professional expertise and infrastructure.


Individual Laboratories and Researchers
---------------------------------------

.. quotes::
   :group: Individual laboratories and researchers


.. quote::
   :author: Prof. Petr Hlustik
   :affiliation: Departments of Neurology and Radiology, Palacky University School of Medicine and University Hospital, Olomouc, Czech Republic
   :date: 2010-10-11
   :tags: breadth

   [...] those wonderful tools in Debian Neuro [...] make my life as a
   researcher who also maintains a bunch of Debian boxes so much easier.

.. quote::
   :author: Dr. Jo Etzel
   :affiliation: Department of Psychology, Washington University
   :date: 2012-03-15
   :tags: vm

   I am a dedicated R user ... and have a Windows box. But this
   afternoon I (finally) downloaded and installed NeuroDebian and the
   VirtualBox, ran AFNI, and generated the files I needed, all within
   about an hour and a half. [...] not bad, considering that I know
   essentially no Linux/Unix. So here's a big "thanks!" :)

Commit message:

Better navigation on testimonials page.

sphinx/testimonials.rst, after:

.. _testimonials:

Testimonials
============

Here is some feedback we got from the neuroscience community on various
occasions. On this page it is grouped by its origin (i.e.  `research
institutions`_, `research software projects`_, `individual laboratories and
researchers`_). Alternatively, you can read testimonials related to specific
topics:

* :ref:`testimonials_open_science`
* :ref:`testimonials_standardization`
* :ref:`testimonials_vm`

.. None so far replied
..
.. Organizations
.. -------------
..
.. .. quotes::
..    :group: Organizations


Research Institutions
---------------------

.. quotes::
   :group: Research institutions

..   not implemented for now
..   :sections: group


Research Software Projects
--------------------------

.. quotes::
   :group: Research software projects

.. quote::
   :author: Stephan Gerhard, et al.
   :date: 2011-06-06
   :tags:  practices, quality
   :source: The Connectome Viewer Toolkit, Front. Neuroinform. 5:3. doi: 10.3389/fninf.2011.00003

   For proper software packaging and distribution, the NeuroDebian project provides professional expertise and infrastructure.


Individual Laboratories and Researchers
---------------------------------------

.. quotes::
   :group: Individual laboratories and researchers


.. quote::
   :author: Prof. Petr Hlustik
   :affiliation: Departments of Neurology and Radiology, Palacky University School of Medicine and University Hospital, Olomouc, Czech Republic
   :date: 2010-10-11
   :tags: breadth

   [...] those wonderful tools in Debian Neuro [...] make my life as a
   researcher who also maintains a bunch of Debian boxes so much easier.

.. quote::
   :author: Dr. Jo Etzel
   :affiliation: Department of Psychology, Washington University
   :date: 2012-03-15
   :tags: vm

   I am a dedicated R user ... and have a Windows box. But this
   afternoon I (finally) downloaded and installed NeuroDebian and the
   VirtualBox, ran AFNI, and generated the files I needed, all within
   about an hour and a half. [...] not bad, considering that I know
   essentially no Linux/Unix. So here's a big "thanks!" :)
